# PurpleRun

### 3.0 Project Proposal Document

###### Description
PurpleRun is a domestic violence app. It will be a resource for survivors, as well as a resource to help educate anyone who wants to learn more about this issue and help the cause. The app has a game-like name to avoid causing any suspicions from the abuser. The homepage will appear as a game and a pin will be needed to get to the “real” homepage of the app. Every page of the app will have an emergency button that will immediately call 911 and the call won't be ended UNLESS the user’s pin is entered.  

The app will have a main menu page with option for all of the information it will have: how to be an advocate/ally (which will explainhow to help, where to volunteer, what to know, etc.), information on different types of abuse, general info for all survivors (legal, health, etc.), information for undocumented survivors, information for mothers/survivors with children, and shelters in the user’s local area with their contact information. The app will also have different language options as well as information on interpreters.  

The app will call APIs to gather the information needed.  

There are other domestic violence apps in existence.


###### Justification 
I decided to pursue this as my 402 project because it encompasses so much of my experience at LMU. I’ve been a part of Belles Service Organization since freshman year, and through this I’ve been serving at a domestic violence shelter on a weekly basis for a few years. Being able to work with women and children who have been affected by domestic violence has given me perspective and experience on the issue that will help me to make this app, as well as made me incredibly passionate about the cause.  

The project will pull from all of my previous computer science courses, and will challenge me to do my best work. It will have a very wide target audience, which means it will need to be usable for users of all different backgrounds, languages, ethnicities, etc, which is a task I haven’t encountered to this scale ever before in my CS career. The app will demonstrate my abilities and the knowledge I’ve gained from interaction design, as I strive for usability, programming language as I work with Swift for the first time, 401 as I complete another project but this time individually, and so on with all of the CS classes.  

Although the project will be difficult I believe the classes and internship experience I’ve had so far have prepared me to do it. It will be a lot of work but since it will call APIs to gather information and won’t need a database I believe I will have enough time to complete it.  

Another reason I feel compelled to complete this project is because domestic violence is an epidemic in America and it needs more attention then it is getting. According to the NCADV (National Coalition Against Domestic Violence):  

* 1 in 3 women and 1 in 4 men have been victims of physical violence by an intimate partner  
* 1 in 4 women and 1 in 7 men have been victims of severe physical violence by an intimate partner  
* Women between the ages of 18-24 are the most commonly abused by an intimate partner  
* Approx. 75% of women who are killed by their abusers are murdered when they attempt to leave or have left abusive relationship.  

So this project and more like it need to be done. Being an LMU student means being a person with and for others, to me this project is a way to do so. 
