# 4.0 Software Development Plan
  
### 4.1   Plan Introduction  
This Software Development Plan provides the details of the planned development for the PurpleRun iOS app which provides an application that provides information and resources to domestic violence survivors and those who want to educate themselves on the issue.  
  
Domestic violence affects nearly 20 people per minute in the United States (https://ncadv.org/statistics). PurpleRun aims to both educate society on this epidemic, as well as provide resources and information for survivors of intimate partner violence.  
  
PurpleRun is a domestic violence iOS app. It will be a resource for survivors of domestic abuse, as well as a resource to help educate anyone who wants to learn more about this issue and help the cause. The app is careful to avoid raising any suspicion from an abuser, with a game-like name and homescreen. A pin will be needed to get to the “real” homepage of the app. Every page of the app will have an emergency button that will immediately call 911 and the call won't be ended unless the user’s pin is entered. The app will be a source of informatoin, giving users the opportunity to select from the main menu information on: how to be an advocate, education on the different types of abuse, general legal information, what to do if you are an undocumented survivor, what to do if you are a survivor with children, and shelters in your area. The app will also have different language options as well as information on interpreters.   
  
The projects sub task include (and have included):  
* An updated and finalized Software Development Plan in week eleven  
* An updated and finalized Requirements Specification Document in week thirteen  
* A Preliminary demo presentations during weeks thirteen - fifteen  
* A final product delivery (both project code and report) and presentation during week seventeen  
  
### 4.1.1 Project Deliverables  
The projects sub task include (and have included):  
* **Project Proposal** *week two:*  
    -This document provides a verbal description of the project, as well as a justification of the project. 
* **Initial Requirements Specification Document** *week five*  
    -This is intended as a contract between the customer (instructor) and the solution provider. The document specifies exactly what is being built.   
    -It includes Functional Requirements, Performance Requirements, and Environment Requirements.    
* **Initial Software Development Plan** *week nine*  
    -A plan that is intended to describe the process that will be used during the semester, leading to the production of all required documents and software for your project.  
    -Includes: Plan Introduction, Project Deliverables, Project Resources, Hardware Resources, Software Resources, Project Organization, Project Schedule, PERT / GANTT Chart, Task / Resource Table, and a Class Schedule (optional).
* **Updated Software Development Plan** *week eleven*  
    -The same as the document abovem just with updates and finalizations to the plan. 
* **Oral Status Reports** *every week from week nine onward*  
    -Given in the form of SCRUMs in class
    -Explains what you have accomplished, where you currently are, what you plan to accomplish by the next SCRUM, and any possible roadblocks you may be dealing with 
* **Written Status Reports** *every other week from week nine onward*  
    -Outlines the accomplishments since the last report, the tasks scheduled to be done by the next report, and notworthy risks/concerns/problems. 
* **Updated Requirements Specification Document** *week thirteen*  
    -The same Requirements Specification Document that is listed above, just with updates and finalizations. 
* **Preliminary Demo Presentations** *weeks thirteen - fifteen*  
    -A demonstration of the project/product in front of the class 
* **Final Product Delivery and Presentation** *week seventeen*  
    -Both the code for the project and the final report are due  
    
### 4.2   Project Resources  
### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 4.2.1 Hardware Resources  
  Resource               | Development   | Execution
  ------------------     | ------------- | -----------
  macOS Machine          | ✓             | ✓
  iOS Machine            | ✓             | ✓
  2 GB RAM (Minimum)     | ✓             | ✓
  Display                | ✓             | ✓
  Internet Connection    | ✓             | ✓
 *maybe:*
  Intel Processor        |               | ✓
  ARM Processor          |               | ✓

### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 4.2.2 Software Resources  
  Resource                                 | Development   | Execution
  ---------------------------------------- | ------------- | ---------
  macOS                                    | ✓             | ✓
  Windows 10                               | ✓             | ✓
  Xcode (version 9.2)                      | ✓             |  
  Web Broswers (Chrome, Firefox, IE)       | ✓             | ✓
  GitHub                                   | ✓             |
  Google Drive                             | ✓             |  
  
### 4.3   Project Organization  
**Major Functions of the app:**    
* Frontend/making the pages:  
    * homepage  
    * settings page  
    * main menu page  
    * "how to be an ally/advocate" page
    * "education on the different types of abuse" page  
    * "general legal information" page  
    * "info for undocumented survivors" page 
    * "info for survivors with children" page  
    * "shelters in the area" page    
*The pages have all been made and stubbed out. As I find the information (from the researched sources explained below) for each of the topic pages, I will add the information to that page. The routing between pages has been done as well.* 
* UI design  
    *With Swift the design is easy to do as I go. With each new page I was able to create the design. I will continue to complete it page-by-page.*  
    *As I add the content to each topic page I will style it accordingly. I plan to keep every page as uniform/similar to the others as possible. Since this app is meant to be usable for as many different types of users as possible, the simplicity and usability is incredibly important.*
* Research different sources to use to provide the information on the app  
    * Poplulate the pages with this information  
    *During the early stages of the project when I was deciding which topics to make pages in the main menu, I made sure each topic I wanted to include had enough information on a reliable site to include the topic. I kept all of these sources and will include them page-by-page for each of the topics.* 
* Find and Implement the language translation API  
*I have found the best-suited API for my app and plan to have it implemented by week eight, the latest it can be implemented is week ten.*  
*Since I am unfamiliar with Swift I am doing an online course which includes API implementation, so that should help me acomplish this task.*
* Find and Implement the emergency calling API  
*I have found the best-suited API for my app and plan to have it implemented by week eight, the latest it can be implemented is week nine.*  
*Since I am unfamiliar with Swift I am doing an online course which includes API implementation, so that should help me acomplish this task.*
* First time users need to get the app-wide password  
    * Then it can never be shown to them again  
*The logic for this needs to be implemented by week eleven/twelve.*  
*Since I am unfamiliar with Swift I am doing an online course which includes logic to identify first time users and route them accodingly, so that should help me acomplish this task.*
* Unless they are a fist time user, users cannot get past the homescreen unless you input the correct password  
*The logic for this needs to be implemented by week eleven/twelve.*  
*Since I am unfamiliar with Swift I am doing an online course which includes logic to identify first time users and route them accodingly, so that should help me acomplish this task.*
* 911 call cannot be stopped unless the correct password is given  
*The logic for this needs to be implemented by week eleven/twelve.*  
*Once I handle the task where all first-time users get the password I will be able to implement this feature. I should be able to do so by week twelve.*

### 4.4   Project Schedule  
This section provides schedule information for the PurpleRun project.  
### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 4.4.1 PERT / GANTT Chart  
### &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; 4.4.2 Task / Resource Table  
*Note: I did not include a "team" column here because this is an individual project so the value for each box in the column would have been me!*  
  
  Task                           | Hardware        | Software
  ------------------------------ | -------------   | -----------
  UI Design                      | Macbook, iPhone | Atom, Xcode
  API implementation (2)         | Macbook         | Xcode, Chrome, Github
  Passwords: first-time users    | Macbook         | Xcode, Chrome, Github
  Find reliable sources          | Macbook         | Chrome
  Populate pages with info       | Macbook         | Xcode, Chrome, Github
  Frontend                       | Macbook, iPhone | Xcode, Chrome, Github
  Homepage   block (w/o password)| Macbook         | Xcode, Chrome, Github
  911 call (no stop)             | Macbook         | Xcode, Chrome, Github

