## 5.0 Requirements Specification  
  
Table of contents:  
5.1   Introduction  
5.2   Functional Requirements  
5.3   Performance Requirements  
5.4   Environment Requirements  


### 5.1   Introduction  
This Software Requirements Specifcation (SRS) outlines the software requirements for the PurpleRun iOS app. PurpleRun is a domestic violence app. It will be a resource for survivors of domestic abuse, as well as a resource to help educate anyone who wants to learn more about this issue and help the cause. The app is careful to avoid raising any suspicion from an abuser, with a game-like name and homescreen. A pin will be needed to get to the “real” homepage of the app. Every page of the app will have an emergency button that will immediately call 911 and the call won't be ended unless the user’s pin is entered. The app will be a source of informatoin, giving users the opportunity to select from the main menu information on: how to be an advocate, education on the different types of abuse, general legal information, what to do if you are an undocumented survivor, what to do if you are a survivor with children, and shelters in your area. The app will also have different language options as well as information on interpreters. The user only needs internet access and a smartphone. The app will will require API calls to gather the information shared on the app, a web server to call the APIs and to interact with the website, and a set of HTML webpages that will display all of the information to users. If the APIs change in their functionality, maintenance may be required.  
  
The remainder of this document is structured as follows: section 5.2 contains information about the Functional Requirements, section 5.3 describes the Performance Requirements, and section 5.4 explains the Environment Requirements.  
### 5.2   Functional Requirements  
5.2.1	Mobile (Graphical) User Interface: The mobile user interface for the app allows the user to select which information they'd like to view from the main menu. It also allows the user to choose which page of the app they would like to be on.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;5.2.1.1 The mobile user interface shall provide a menu system to access all functions of the &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;application. Application functions will include:  
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*login to the *real* homepage of the app  
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*choose which topic to view from the app’s main menu  
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*choose your language in which to view the app  
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;*make an emergency call  
    &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;5.2.1.2 The mobile user interface shall provide a set of buttons to allow access to all functions of the application
### 5.3   Performance Requirements  
5.3.1 Performance Requirement 1  
.  
.  
.  
5.3.n Performance Requirement n  
### 5.4   Environment Requirements  
5.4.1 Development Environment Requirements  
5.4.2 Execution Environment Requirements
